Manual - Extending Oakestra (#19)
nitindermohan/oak-new-docs: content/docs/manuals/extending-oakestra/install_addon.md

---
title: "Install an Addon"
summary: ""
draft: false
weight: 2
toc: true
seo:
  title: "" # custom title (optional)
  description: "" # custom description (recommended)
  canonical: "" # custom canonical URL (optional)
  noindex: false # false (default) or true
---

{{< callout context="caution" title="Requirements" icon="outline/alert-triangle" >}}
Before installing an Addon make sure that the Addons System is running and that the Addon to be installed is published in the Marketplace.

> - Verfy that the Addons Engine component is running inside your orchestrator. Visit the [prerequisite section](./prerequisite.md) for more details onto running the Addons Engine component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Verfy that the Addons Engine component is running inside your orchestrator. Visit the [prerequisite section](../setup-addons-system) for more details onto running the Addons Engine component.
```

---
title: "Install an Addon"
summary: ""
draft: false

> weight: 2

Reviewer 2: Maybe "install addons" should come before "create addons" as most people would only want to use existing addons? Also this documentation is written with basic Addon description that should be read first. 

If yes, please swap the weight of create and install docs

toc: true
seo:
  title: "" # custom title (optional)
  description: "" # custom description (recommended)
  canonical: "" # custom canonical URL (optional)
  noindex: false # false (default) or true
---

## Introduction

Addons in Oakestra allow developers to extend the platform by adding new features or enhancing existing ones. This guide focuses on the installation process for addons, enabling you to integrate published addons into your Oakestra environment seamlessly.

## Install an Addon

{{< callout context="note" title="Note" icon="outline/info-circle" >}}
Before installing an Addon make sure that the Addons System is running and that the Addon to be installed is published in the Marketplace.

> - Verify that the Addon is published in the Marketplace. This can be done by sending a `GET` request to `/api/v1/marketplace/addons/{addon_marketplace_id}`.

Reviewer 2: Is there a public addon marketplace that will continue to run. How will someone get to know the "marketplace_id"?

> - Also verify that the Addons Engine component is running inside your orchestrator.

Reviewer 2: How to verify this? Give the command or point to specific pointer in setup that someone should lookout for

{{< /callout >}}

Installing an addon is a simple step involving sending a `POST` request to the Addons Engine - `/api/v1/addons`. Example of the body of the request could be:
```json
{
  "marketplace_id": "{addon_marketplace_id}"
}
```

> 

Reviewer 2: make a link-card and point to "installing apps using API" documentation with the title: "Want to learn how to use Oakestra API? See our detailed documentation."
